# I've heard it already! - English Learning Assistant

## Descritption
[^1]English Learning Assistant is a tool designed to help non-native English speakers enhance their vocabulary while consuming English content. The application listens along with the user and allows them to quickly and easily add new words to their personal dictionary with a single click.

### Motiavtion
The main purpose of this project is to streamline the process of vocabulary building for English learners. Instead of manually typing and looking up new words in a separate dictionary, users can leverage the power of this application to do it in a more efficient and user-friendly way.

Whether you're watching a movie, listening to a podcast, or attending a lecture, English Learning Assistant is your companion, helping you to remember and learn new words as you encounter them.

This application is a result of personal experience and the desire to make language learning a more seamless and enjoyable process.  

## Functionality overview
- Transcribing audio in real time (with latency < 2s)
- Local database
- GUI App
- Offline Speech-to-text using [VoskAPI](https://alphacephei.com/vosk/)

## Requirements and Installation
- So far, this app works only on MacOS driven devices. 
- it needs [BlackHole](https://existential.audio/blackhole/) as a virtual audio input that aggregates the audio from all sources and feeds it to the transcriber
- [Vosk model](https://alphacephei.com/vosk/models) is required, as the app performes offline transcription


## Upcoming Features
- Improving the readability of the generated transcript
    - Introducing a punctuation model
- Handling complex phrases and idioms using a language parser
- Adding flashcard functionality




[^1]: The description generated by Github Copilot




